High in this video we're going to continue our discussion on unpacking it Robles.
So the first thing that we looked at in the lecture were tuples So let's just review that very quickly.
So for example we can make a tuple this way we use this parentheses and then we use these commas between
the different elements of the tuple and the round parentheses year we think indicates that this is a
tuple.
So if we look at the type of page it is in fact that but the parentheses are not required to actually
define a tuple what really defines the tuple is the comma.
So we can write this as well this way.
This is just the same thing.
And if we look at the type of a while it is still one common to come at three.
In fact if we print a we get one comma to come in three with the parentheses.
So the parentheses in cases like that are really just there for display purposes.
They don't actually defined the tuple itself.
In fact if we want to create a tuple that has a single element you might be tempted to do this equals
one.
Thinking that this these parentheses here is actually creating the tuple.
In fact the type of A in this case is just an integer.
It just so a single value an integer value in here and said hey this is an int.
If we were to write something like this let's say then the type of a would be a string.
Right.
A contains the value a.
So it is not the parentheses that kind of defines or creates the tuple.
It is the comma.
So if you want to create a tuple of a single element then you would have to created with a single comma.
So we could do something like this.
Now if you look at a it is a single element tuple and a type of A is indeed tuple.
Of course you don't need the parentheses.
So you can just write a equals that say 100 comma and this will also create a tuple with a single element
right of one hundred.
So if we print out we get the 100 comma.
Again the display just adds the parentheses around.
Is it more clearly delineates the tuple itself.
And we'll see that there are also cases where you have to use the parentheses also.
And the first case to we'll look at in this lecture is when you want to create an empty tuple.
So for some reason you want to create an empty tuple then you have to use just the wrong parentheses.
You would do this.
And now you get the type of a is that you cannot say a comma.
That's just bad syntax that won't work and you can't say a equals comma in parentheses either.
That will not work and is also invalid syntax.
OK so that's how we create tuples.
And just remember that tuples don't need the parentheses.
So with that said let's go ahead and look into unpacking.
So we're first going to look at how to unpack a list which is an interval type into a tuple.
Remember that we can unpack any iterable type so we can unpack lists we can unpack sets we can unpack
tuples we can unpack dictionaries whether the collections are ordered or not doesn't matter we can still
unpack as long as it is iterable we can unpack.
In fact you can create your own custom classes that are iterable will see how to do that later in the
school.
And it will work the same way you will be able to unpack it in exactly the same way.
So let's go ahead and take a look at an example.
Let's say well we have two or three variables a b and c and we're going to unpack into it the values
one a and three point one food.
So what happens here is I would do a position on packing.
So one is going to go into a A.s going to go into B and 3.1 four isn't going to see.
In other words it is going to be this is one B is A and C is three point 1 4.
So we just unpack that list into the tuple.
Now you could write it this way.
Right because the left hand side just has to be a tuple.
So you could do this.
That works just as well and a as one B is 2 and C is three.
All we did was just unpack one two three the list into the tuple.
ABC again since tuples don't really require the parentheses we can write it this way.
You can also unpack a tuple into a tuple so you could say a comma become a C equals.
Well let's just do two.
For now a column B equals one comma to.
Right.
So here we have two tuples.
You can even if you want put in the parentheses here if you want to make things a little clearer and
we get a is 1 and B is 2.
So we just unpacked the iterable tuple on the right hand side into the iterable table on the left hand
side.
Now you have to remember what happens and we discussed that in the lecture but Python will first evaluate
this completely in memory first.
So when it sees this it's going to create a new table object that will contain references to the integer
1 and references to the integer 2.
And then it does the assignment.
So then it's going to take the reference for the first position and put it into the first positions
variable reference and it's going to take the reference from the second position and do the same thing
and make be equal to that reference.
So what this means is that we can do things like this so we can say a comma B is 10 20.
And this is sometimes called parallel assignments some people call it parallel assignment.
But what it really is as to unpacking it is unpacking this adorable which is a tuple into this tuple
over here.
And so now we have that a 10 and B is 20.
And of course you can expand on that.
You don't have to stay with just two.
You can go three as many as you want or 10 20 30.
And now we have a 10.
The is 20.
And C is 30.
Right.
So that's a very common way when you have a few number of variables that you want to assign literals
to.
You might do something like this.
You don't have to even stick with homogeneous types here.
We can say 10 A and 3.1 for that works just as well it doesn't matter what the types of write you could
even have a comic A B C equals 10 comma and then he will do a set with two elements and he will do a
list with two elements as well as do A and B.
So you can even do things like this.
It starts getting a little more difficult to read but it's OK in this case.
And so S10 B is the set 1 2 and C is the list a B.
So that works just fine as well.
OK.
So one of the consequences of the unpacking and also the fact that Python evaluates the right hand side
completely is how we can very easily swap two variables in Python.
And we saw in the lecture and if you already use other programming languages before you've probably
you know use a temp variable to swap two values you have to store the value of one variable before you
override the other one.
In Python you don't need to do that.
So let's say we say A cannot be equal to 10 20.
So now we've just done this assignment right.
We've unpacked 10 Kummer 20 into a and b.
So if we print a and b then we have 10 and 20.
OK so now let's go ahead and swap the two values.
Well all we have to say is that a comma B B calls B comma.
That's all we have to do.
And that was why normally in other programming languages you've seen that as soon as we take a and we
override it with the value of B while we've lost the value of A's so we can't put it into B.
But you have to remember Python evaluates this right hand side completely forced.
So it creates a topple in memory with its first element being the memory address that he's referencing.
And the second element being the memory address that is referencing In other words you can think of
it this way that it's doing a tadpole with Idea A or idea of B in this case an idea of a right.
That's kind of what it's doing.
And if we can see out we just get these two memory addresses.
That's kind of what it's doing and it's creating this table here.
So this thing now is in memory.
OK.
This python has a handle on this thing and then it says OK now do the assignment to a comma B.
Now obviously it's not going to sign.
You know when we print a we can do the assignment this way we can say eight equals c.
Right because.
Or a comma.
B I should say people c because a then is going to be that memory reference.
That's not what we want.
We technically these are memory references but we don't want a memory reference.
So let's get rid of all that.
So it has these two memory references in memory and they fixed that.
Right.
So now it goes ahead and says OK is going to point to that memory address.
And B is going to point to that memory address.
So there's no overriding or variables here and hence why this was perfectly fine.
Actually it's just run the whole thing again.
And now if we again print a comma B We will get the variables have been swapped 20 come at 10.
All right.
So that's just a nice side effect of this unpacking that we have in Python.
So let's go ahead and look at some more examples we can come back any iterable type.
So a string for example is iterable we can say for an x y z.
B and I will just print the characters X Y and Z it iterates through every character in the string.
So wherever is iterable we can unpack.
So we could say a column become a C equals x y z.
And if we have that then we have x y and z z.
So we just unpack the string into that tuple on the left hand side.
Now of course since it was for an iterable it will also work for things like dictionaries and sets.
Now these are unordered collections.
So the concept of position is kind of odd here because there is no concept of position right.
If you're looking at a string right if you have let's say as equals x y z then you can look at the fourth
character there is a concept of the first character.
There was a concept of the second character.
Right.
But if we look at a set let's say the set is 1 come to come 3 then there is no such thing you cannot
write as 0.
That will give you an error because the said object does not support indexing.
Well yeah.
There is no order in sets and the same thing with dictionaries.
So let's go ahead and take a look.
Now we unpack.
You just have to remember that when you unpack.
There is no guarantee of the order in which the assignment is going to be done.
So in other words let's do this let's say S-League calls p.
We want a set.
So it's true pythonic P Y T H O N K.
So here's our set.
Now if we print s what do we get.
Well you can see it's not in the same order that we defined it in.
Now your mileage may vary here you may get something different it will depend on you know the Python
implementation that you're using the version of Python that you are using.
So you may not even get the same result I get here.
And we'll get to what's happening with sets and dictionaries and why we don't have that ordering.
And I mean there is some ordering in the sense that it's coming back in some order.
Right but that's because of the way the data is being stored in memory and how you know how the data
is being stored and how it's being retrieved.
So that has nothing to do with how we specify that here.
Let's go ahead and iterate.
S SS iterable so we can say for e n s and we can print EIP.
And as you can see we get that iteration here again the order is not guaranteed.
However we can still unpack it.
It may not be very useful although in this case to unpack it you know but maybe there's a reason for
it.
So ABC even f right when you have six elements so we'll need six variables in these and the tuple on
the left hand side on backward and we can unpack s into that.
So if we do this then we get a is H B is P and so forth.
And you can see that it's coming back in the same order though it was iterated because in fact that's
what happens.
Python will iterate through the right hand side and do the assignment to the left hand side variables.
Dictionaries work the same way.
So let's say we have dict one.
Actually I'm going to use D.
I want to point out something as well.
So let's say we have D with three key value pairs.
OK.
So again we can iterate D.
Now what happens when we iterate the dictionary.
So let's say for B and D.
Print B.
You can see that we get just the keys back.
Now that just happened to come back in the same order not guaranteed.
So I'll count on that.
So it just iterates the keys.
So if we are going to do an unpacking it's going to unpack the piece.
So if we do a comma B A C equals D then we get that A is A B B C C.
Right and D of course is still just the dictionary.
But let's go ahead and let's add one more element to the dictionary.
I'll just copy paste this down here and let's go ahead and create d for.
OK.
So now we've got a dictionary of four elements and I'm going to unpack ABC right.
I'm gonna unpack D into a b c d.
Now I see what's happening here.
I bet there's the variable here and I got the variable here that the same name.
So don't be confused by this.
Remember that what's going to happen is that forced Python is going to take D and it's going to have
this dictionary it's not going to have D it's going to have whatever is referencing which is this object
here in memory.
OK.
Once that's done that's it.
DS no longer in play.
But here we're not assigning the first element.
The first key to the second key to be the second the third key of C and the fourth key to D.
So at that point the memory reference of D is going to change from pointing to this object in memory
to pointing to this object in memory.
So if we run this code and we get A's A or B B is B c is c and d is in fact the string D.
It's no longer pointing to that dictionary.
So that's maybe a little confusing but let me maybe do something a little bit different.
Let's go ahead and recreate the dictionary since we just overrode it.
And no I'm going to actually unpack d first.
So again just to emphasize the the right hand side is evaluated first.
So Python now has a reference to this dictionary not too deep.
It has a point where essentially it's pointing to this object here.
D happens to be pointing to the same object.
But now we have two pointers.
Right so the the reference count if you only think of that when we did this when we do this on facking
here the reference count for just went up by 1.
Here we are unpacking the first element of d the dictionary into the first variable D.
So what's going to happen is that it's going to take the memory address of this key here and assign
it to D so d will be essentially equal to the string a.
And now we continue to the unpacking.
Yes D is no longer pointing to the dictionary but by the time the assignment occurs that doesn't matter
anymore because Python is now directly unpacking this object into this object over here.
So this is why this will work just as expected.
So we get DS The string a a is the string B C is the string D and D is the string a all right.
So that's the unpacking of dictionaries again.
Just remember that the order doesn't matter right.
You don't have children guaranteed.
So there's no guarantee you will come back in the same order in which you specified the dictionary literal
on which you added it to the dictionary.
And same with sets and same with any order type.
The last thing that I want to talk about is the dictionary again not used so that if we have the need
to recreate it since I overrode it.
If we iterate the
then we are iterating keys.
Now sometimes you may want to unpack not the keys but the values of the dictionary.
While that's possible as well it's very simple because there is a method in the dictionary class that
allows us to create essentially an iterable of the values right.
By default the iterable will be iterating the keys but we can do this.
We can say 40 in d Dobbs values now values is a method that will allow us to iterate the values of the
dictionary.
And let's see what we get.
And indeed you can see that now instead of getting a b c d we are getting the values 1 2 3 4.
So we can do that now and unpack that into the dictionary into four different variables so we can say
a comma to become a C comedy equals Deardorff value.
So again Python is just going to evaluate the right hand side.
We're not unpacking a function into this.
We're unpacking the result of a function which happens to be an iterable and it will go into a b c and
d.
So now if we look at a good one B is to C is 3 and D are going to be 4.
That's the last remaining one again.
The order in which this happens is not guaranteed OK.
So that allows you to unpack the values.
Now you may also want to maybe unpack both the key and the value.
Well there is another method and again all this will come back into much greater detail in the videos
on dictionaries but you can also look at the items and we can say for indeed not wealth in this case
let me skip the variable name in Deedat items.
If we do that then items is actually going to return a topple with the first element of the top of containing
the key.
The second element of the table containing the value.
So maybe we say for p in d items and then we can print out
I again overwrote my dictionary.
Let's go ahead and rerun this but I'm going to change it.
I don't want to run into that problem again ever.
So let's do it this way.
Run it first.
OK.
So what's happening you can see that the element that we're iterating that we get back at each iteration
is a topple a comma a one B.Com to see Comet 3 again the old is not guaranteed.
But this is a topple.
So now you would have to say well they can't be equal speed.
Right.
And then you could say print and we could say key equals
and value equals that.
And we'll pass it a comet B.
So if we do that then you can see that we unpacked the tuple that we get in the iteration into two separate
variables A and B.
So this was just unpacking.
Of course you don't actually have to do it this way.
We can take this out and instead of saying either we can say a of B we can unpacked directly into this
tuple here a com comma B and it will work exactly the same.
All right.
We'll see this again in more detail when we get to the section on dictionaries.
But thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.